Estimates vary, but some say that the basic chemical elements that make up the human
body can be valued at as little as five dollars.
And that's understandable when we read the description of man's creation at Genesis
chapter 2, verse 7.
Please open your Bibles to this scripture, and as we read it, notice the materials Jehovah
used when he created man.
Genesis 2 7 says, and Jehovah God went on to form the man out of dust from the ground
and to blow into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living person.
Jehovah took basic elements from the ground and formed them into a complex structure.
Then he added the breath of life and raised the value of that dust to a level that can
be described only as priceless.
From five dollars worth of dust, God created a walking, talking, intelligent human made
in God's own image.
Since man is made from the dust of the ground, it's fitting that the prophet Jeremiah and
Isaiah use the example of a potter molding clay to illustrate our relationship with our
creator.
There's so much we can say about this illustration, but I'd like to focus on three lessons that
we can learn from the potter and the clay.
The first is, be content.
Be content with how Jehovah molds and uses us.
Second, be patient and endure.
And third, cultivate an obedient heart.
Let's consider the first lesson.
Be content with how Jehovah molds and uses us.
Pottery making is a highly treasured art form in Japan.
And depending where the clay came from and the methods used, the results can be very unique.
Pottery made in the town of Bezen in Western Japan is called Bezenyaki or Bezenware.
And it is noted for its earth tones and the fact that it is not glazed.
This Koyaki made in the town of Moshko north of Tokyo is colorful and it is glazed.
Each piece of pottery from these different regions has unique characteristics, but no
matter what the color, consistency or origin of the clay, the final result is still a
piece of pottery.
We can say the same thing about Jehovah's people.
Each one of us is custom made.
It's true we come from 240 lands around the world.
Our physical features, our customs, our language, our personalities vary greatly.
But we all have one thing in common.
We are all molded by the same potter.
As Jehovah uses his word, his Holy Spirit and his organization to mold us into a desirable
vessel, we may notice a lump of clay on the potter's wheel next to us.
He's taken a different shape.
He's become in a useful jar.
She's starting to look like a beautiful vase.
I'm just a plain old bowl.
Well there's no reason for us to be envious or to become competitive.
Rather we should be happy that Jehovah has such a variety of loyal worshipers all using
their God-given gifts to bring him praise.
Please open your Bibles to 1 Corinthians 12.
We'll read verses 14, 17, and 18.
And here we find the illustration of the human body being used to show the great variety
of gifts that we have in the Christian congregation.
So there's no reason for us to be competitive.
1 Corinthians 12 verses 14, 17, and 18 reads, for indeed the body is made up not of one
member but of many.
And verse 17, if the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be?
If it were all hearing, where would the sense of smell be?
But now God has arranged each of the body members just as He pleased.
Remember, Jehovah is the potter.
We are the clay.
And He will use each one of us in a way that utilizes our strong points to help us to
do His will.
For the second lesson, please open your Bibles to James 1 and we'll read verse 4.
This scripture talks about the need for us to be patient or to endure.
James 1 4 says, but let endurance complete its work so that you may be complete and sound
in all respects, not lacking in anything.
So why do we need endurance in order to be molded?
While pottery making is a time-consuming process.
And that's why the potter uses the wheel to keep the clay spinning around and around repeatedly
going over the same places.
And gradually he gives the clay its shape.
In addition, even before putting the clay on the wheel, the potter washes it to remove
any debris such as pebbles and sticks.
Then he may trample on it with his feet to make it pasty and malleable.
Next he needs it with his hands like kneading bread dough.
And finally, he places it on the potter's wheel.
In the same way, before Jehovah can start to mold us, major preparations are needed.
When we start to learn the truth, we have a lot of debris mixed in with the clay.
The debris may be personality traits, some form of wrong conduct, or false religious
beliefs and practices.
Once we correct these matters, we dedicate our lives to Jehovah and he puts us on the
wheel to continue the molding process.
At that point, we all are terribly out of shape.
But Jehovah patiently molds us into a desirable vessel.
Some of us have been in the molding process for decades.
Others just started in recent years.
But no matter how long we've been spinning on the great potter's wheel, we must endure
and remain soft and pliable.
Cultivating an obedient heart will help us to do this.
And that is our third lesson.
When Solomon became king of Israel, he made one request of Jehovah.
This recorded at 1 Kings chapter 3, verse 9, where he prayed,
So grant your servant an obedient heart to judge your people to discern between good
and bad.
Having an obedient heart means allowing Jehovah's Word to mold our desires, our affections,
our emotions, our feelings, our motives, our goals in life.
Interestingly, much pottery is hollow.
And that means the potter has to put his hands and fingers inside the clay to give it
its proper form.
In the same way, God's Word has to get into our hearts to build us up from within.
Please open your Bibles to Psalm 143, verse 10.
These words of David reveal a humble, teachable spirit that will help us to cultivate an obedient
heart.
Psalm 143, verse 10 says, Teach me to do your will.
For you are my God.
Your spirit is good.
May it lead me on level ground.
Yes, there is much we can learn from the illustration of the potter and the clay.
First of all, it teaches us contentment with the wage of Jehovah is molding us and our
fellow workers.
It also shows us the need for endurance and the need to cultivate an obedient heart.
So may we continue to submit to the gentle, loving hands of our great potter.
If we do that, sometime in the future he's going to stop spinning that wheel.
He's going to look down at what used to be five dollars worth of clay and say with
a smile, perfect.
Well hearing that, how happy we will be that like Isaiah, we said, O Jehovah, we are the
clay and you are our potter.